Dejan, thank you for
your time with me.
I find you in a good mood. In Hungary,
in Budapest, in Ferencvaros.
You've been here for six months,
you have already acclimatized.
One transition period has passed.
How are you feeling?
What are your expectations?
-Thanks for the invitation.
I responded with great pleasure
because I follow your work.
I'm watching, listening to what you're
doing and you are doing amazing things.
And once again, I want to congratulate
you on the whole organization.
Everything you imagined,
you achieved.
I'm sure you won't dwell on it
and will move on.
I wish you all the best.
Now, I'm in Ferencvaros.
Budapest is my new chapter.
This club has a serious history
written for decades.
This year is also the 125th anniversary
of Ferencvaros.
Expectations are high.
The new championship is moving
into its second part.
Preparations were done
in phenomenal conditions.
Regarding the transition period,
they did what they promised.
Have there been a lot of changes
in the transfer window?
A lot of players came,
but they didn't stop there.
Although Ferencvaros has won
the title for five years in a row,
the management has not stopped.
They move on.
They want a breakthrough
in Europe. -That's right.
They want new players,
new targets.
We have to do the most important thing
in order to have a starting point,
which is winning the championship.
I noticed that the new infrastructure
is perfect, as well as the new stadium.
I wish you the best of luck.
-Thank you very much.
Now we'll go back to the beginnings.
To Zemun and you growing up.
Your parents were
directly involved in football.
What was the link and how did it all
start in Zemun? -Everything was nice.
My parents were playing football
when they met and started dating.
But when they got married
they stopped doing it.
So I didn't have a chance...
Nor did they force me.
Since I was little, that ball was
beginning and end of my day.
I had a normal upbringing.
With good and strong attitudes.
So I am grateful to them
for how they raised me.
We all know how it was back then,
it's probably different now.
Times change, but I'm so happy
with how I was raised in that home.
And how I introduced myself
when I started playing football.
And I passed all that
on to my children.
I am very grateful to Bora
and Dragica for that.
At that time there was a big dilemma
between folklore and football.
Can you explain that to us?
I don't understand that analogy.
Now when you look at me, you would
never say that I can do folklore.
I'm like a stone, I'm a little
stronger and bigger.
But I think that coordination had
a lot of influence later in my football.
You think that helped you?
-I think so.
It's something that taught me
about socializing and social life.
That there are different people.
That there are people with
a different character. It was all fun.
I managed to go to both
football practice and folklore.
How long did that last?
-Probably three or four years.
That was serious then. -Yes, it was.
It lasted from my 12th to 16th year.
Until I started playing
for the first team.
After that I couldn't do it anymore.
-Of course you can't.
That was a nice period
where I met a lot of people.
I have also been on several trips
where I saw that there is
something else besides football.
Mother, apart from the specific fact
that she was involved in football,
I read that she collected
everything related to you.
From the first day... -When there were
no articles in the newspaper.
Yes, you’re right. I have
12 or 13 notebooks in A4 format.
Those are some notes.
Yes, about first games
when I started playing for Teleoptik.
She wrote the date,
who we are playing against,
how I played and
what the score was.
And so on until the age of 16.
When it was no longer necessary.
-When newspaper clippings appeared.
She collected every article
for every match, and I used
that for my biography "Dejan".
Everyone used a lot of
that material and it is unique.
My parents didn't look at me
like a dollar or a walking euro.
They just enjoyed it and supported me.
It wasn't always great and fabulous.
They watched my every game.
Until I left Crvena Zvezda.
When I started playing for the first team,
they didn't watch away games.
But every game at the Maracana
until my last one they were there.
Do you think that mom had
that maternal premonition
that she was taking notes about a player
who would become the most decorated
football player in Serbia?
It is certain that mothers
feel something different.
You think she knew that from
the beginning? -I can't say for sure.
But I think mothers sense a lot of it.
Sometimes they say it,
sometimes they don't.
It all happened spontaneously
and was written with a lot of love.
With a lot of faith.
Without any pushing or forcing.
Maybe there is a secret
of success hidden in that.
In your book you mentioned an example
when you didn't go on an excursion.
There were a million examples when
you were deprived in your private life.
You had a very difficult path.
How did you feel then and
what were your beginnings like?
When did you realize that you would
dedicate your whole life to football?
Giving up is an integral part of sports,
and an integral part of life.
There are various types
of renunciation.
If we're only going to talk about
that boyish renunciation,
that's excursions, staying outside
the building until 10 or 11 o'clock.
And not go to sleep at 8 or 9
because you have practice tomorrow.
It's a sacrifice when it's winter
and you need an hour and a half
drive to your practice and back.
You go to school,
and there are times when
you think you won't succeed.
No, that's abstinance,
a struggle with oneself.
I need to say I grew up
in a normal, humble family.
But I'm not complaining.
I think that helped me understand
some things quickly.
I soon realized that football
would be my life.
In the moments when
the sanctions for Serbia start
and when all kinds of stupid
things happen all around us.
As a child then, I did not understand
the suffering of my parents.
What exhibitions and magic
they had to use to get me anything.
At the same time they lost their jobs
when I made my debut for the first team
at the age of 16 and a half
and got my first salary.
Then I told my parents
that they will no longer work.
Father worked in a tyre shop. And mother
chopped salad in a restaurant.
When I got my first paycheck I told
them they won't be working anymore.
So I had no choice between yes or no.
My only answer was yes.
Now we will talk a bit about
your first club, FK Zemun.
There is information that they
assessed in 1989 you had to talent.
Is that true? Or was it by chance?
-It happened by chance.
I went for a tryout.
Near the building I lived in.
I watched FK Zemun
quite a few times.
I grew up 1 km away
from the stadium.
I went. After the first practice
they told me I was not talented.
The best thing I remember
was the tea after that practice.
It was sweet with plenty
of lemon. It was cold.
A surprise soon followed since
they told me I was not talented,
that I could go to a smaller club
and come at later time.
That was the assessment then.
I took it hard.
But we didn't give up. -You were
around 8, 9 or 10 years old then?
If you mentioned 1989, I was about
11 years old. I was born in 1978.
Those are sensitive years.
If I can't play for FK Zemun,
it's better to change the sport.
Mother was persistent, she worked
at INSA, a watch factory.
There was a guy,
a goalkeeper at Teleoptik.
His wife worked with my mother
and he said I should come for a tryout.
After a month or two
of persuasion I went there.
Dragan Šipka was there.
He was the man who told me
to bring two photos and
birth certificate for registration.
After some eight months,
I transferred to Crvena Zvezda.
Dragan Šipka noticed some things
better than his colleague.
It was such a path and I accept it.
I didn't get mad at anyone.
Later I met people who worked in
Zemun and we joked about that.
Also, Mateja Kežman
experienced a similar situation.
We both left FK Zemun.
-You weren't famous.
There were some
financial implications.
That would have been a good
situation for the club too.
I want to thank everyone
because I was a little boy.
I played for the cadets,
youngest categorie.
Dragan Šipka put me in
the play whenever he could.
Then they started
talking about me.
I transferred to Crvena Zvezda.
Toma Milićević started organizing
friendly matches during the winter.
Rumors started circulating
about me very quickly.
Toma Milićević was the coach
of the Crvena Zvezda youngest.
He also organized friendly matches
in the Crvena Zvezda gym,
and it was located above my
previous office, where I worked
as the head of the professional staff.
Above is the handball gym.
 He organized the two friendly matches,
in the handball gym above the office,
as small-sided games to bring people
from Crvena Zvezda to see me play.
That's how the story of them insisting
on me started. Some other clubs
were also involved, which gave
my father a sense of importance.
They were also offering my father
job positions in different cities
so I could join their clubs, but
there was never a shadow of a doubt
that I would go to Zvezda
if they called me.
I went to Zvezda and started
from the youngest team.
I played for them in
Crvena Zvezda for two years,
and that is how
my fast journey started.
And that's how the story of your
professional career starts.
You debuted at 16 in such a team.
Two or three years prior, you were
picking up balls from the field
and watching the generation of '91
players play, and suddenly,
you were sharing a field with them.
-Yes. -How did that look like for you?
Zvezda teaches you quickly
what kind of club it is, how big it is,
and what it expects from you
in the future. There were probably
more talented players in my generation
than me. Not probably, but there were
100% more talented and better players
than me. However, my sacrifice and
work ethic proved to be
something good in the long run.
I spent four years in Zvezda
in the younger categories.
When I was 16,5 years old,
Ljupko put me against OFK Beograd
at the point in the game where
the score was 1-2. We were leading.
It was a serious league at the time.
-And you were 16 years old.
I was precisely 16,5 years old.
It was the 11th of February in 1995.
I was born on the
11th of September in 1978.
And that's when everything started.
I like to say I was like a rocket ship
for three years. After those
three years, I left Zvezda.
A lot of things happened.
I had to grow up quickly.
I had a phenomenal group of young men
around me. I had the opportunity to see
who was a good example and who wasn't.
The team protected me.
I had amazing conditions become better.
Nenad Sakić is a part of my staff now.
He joined Zvezda in 1994
and was like an older brother to me.
I'm sure I let them know what
kind of a person I am with my behavior.
I had phenomenal teammates
who protected me
and gave me the opportunity
to show my best self.
That all happened from your 16th to your
19th year, a quick rise to fame.
You get an offer from Lazio
of 25-24 million marks.
I don't even know what that amount
would be today. -In that moment...
That was unbelievable for you
as a 19-year-old at the time.
If you divide that amount by half
and say 12-12,5 million euros,
it doesn't sound so jawdropping. But at
that moment, 24-25 million marks were...
What would the equivalent
of that today be? -I don't know...
Maybe even 150 million. -I don't know.
Given those circumstances and where
I was coming from, it was a huge sum of
money. It was such a huge sum of money
that a transfer had to be organized.
I remember landing in Rome for
the first time for checkups with
a private airplane Cragnotti sent.
Cragnotti said: "Bring me the kid so I
can see who I paid so much money for."
He wanted to see me in person.
He never saw me because his scouts
Sven-Göran Eriksson, Mancini and Siniša
were responsible for my arrival.
He said: "Okay, okay, I trust you.
Just bring me the kid so I can meet him
in person. To see what I gave
25 million marks for."
That's how my story in Lazio,
the dream team, started. -Dream team...
14 players were brought on that summer.
You didn't know who was paid more,
had a better contract or was a bigger
star. But from the very beginning,
good chemistry was established.
-You achieved great results. -Yes.
That was all thanks to
Sven-Göran Eriksson.
At that moment, he was the only man
that could lead that team. Nobody else.
Trust me when I tell you, Trust me.
-Outstanding individuals:
Nedved, Bokšić, Almeyda, Mancini,
Salas, you... -Conceicao. -Conceicao.
Verón joined us the following year.
In the same year, we also won a title.
Siniša and Couto were also brought in
the first year during the summer.
We won the Cup Winners' Cup, which was
also the last ever Cup Winners' Cup.
That was in 1999? -Yes, in 1999.
It was the 98/99 season.
And that was the last one like that?
-Yes. The last Cup Winners' Cup
was in 1999. We won against Mallorca.
I was almost 20 years old then.
In 1999, I had just turned 20
and was already on the podium.
I was dreaming about it and watching it
for a long time. Everything took off
very quickly. The summer Super Cup
was against Manchester United.
That kind of game was something I
watched, for instance, when they won
against Bayern with two goals
in the last four minutes.
To play against guys like Dwight Yorke,
David Beckham, Neville, Paul Scholes,
and the whole team... -That's a big
deal. -It's a big deal indeed.
Suddenly, you're playing against all of
them when you were watching them
just a year ago and dreaming of sharing
a field. You just have to respect that.
It deserves a lot of respect. You pinch
yourself to realize where you are now.
You understand that you want to stay
there, at that level. That is what
we were talking about. That is when you
start putting in the actual effort.
That is when you start putting in the
actual effort. -The pressure,
expectations, invested money... -Yes,
the invested money... There's pressure.
You want to always be on the top.
You're just proving yourself from one
season to the next. It's nothing to
a club to pay 15-30 million to bring
someone new in to replace you.
So that makes keeping your place
in the team much harder.
I managed to do that for almost 6 years
in Lazio and almost 10 years in Inter.
I changed only two clubs. I consider
myself to be a very persistent man.
I played every single year.
I had to pause in 1999/2000
because I was a foreigner.
I was the fourth "extracomunitario"
or someone from outside of the EU.
At that time, the bombarding happened,
and I wasn't thinking about football.
Football was on my...
-Last on your list. -Last on my list.
For six months,
I was on some sort of a break.
I was always playing with every coach
before and after that period.
We are moving on.
Lazio won the double crown,
which was the second biggest success for
the club. However, the downfall began.
There were financial issues, and the
atmosphere started to wither down.
There was a feeling in the air that
Lazio was experiencing a downfall.
That's when you changed clubs
and moved to Inter Milano,
but many clubs showed interest.
In the midst of all of that,
some complications arose. I would like
to ask you to explain that situation.
I assume those days were traumatic.
-It wasn't traumatic,
but there were a lot of big challenges.
I felt sorry for Lazio because,
at the time, it was a phenomenal
"piazza" (place) to live and play in.
Everything was over the top. We had the
best of the best regarding conditions
and the sports center, which at the time
looked like a space shuttle.
The mode of travel,
the way of playing,
and the way everything
functioned were phenomenal.
I'm sure nobody thought about something
like that having an end date.
Sadly, the end did come. There were some
financial issues followed by multiple
departures from the team
and a change of club policies.
Then, the final year of my
contract came, and, as you said,
many clubs reached out with solid
offers. -Juventus was close, right?
Yes, Juventus was close. It was close.
It was very close. It almost happened.
We don't have to go into details.
-We don't have to go into details.
We won't. -I can't go into details.
I had a gut feeling. Inter reached out,
too, amongst many other Italian clubs.
I spoke with Mancini. That talk wasn't
the deciding factor since I was already
drawn to Inter, but he said,
"I have a feeling that if you go there,
you will write history in golden
letters." -Mancini said that?
Yes, Mancini. And then, of course,
I might have heard some whispers
that he might also come to Inter that
summer. So, our paths crossed again
"coincidentally", if anything in life
can be called a coincidence.
We started writing history.
I changed clubs. There was a lot of back
and forth. They submitted the contract
at the last minute on the last day
of the transition period.
The driver who delivered the contract
and was later with me in the club
for 10 years said that that drive
from the club to the Association
was the hardest one because he was on
the reserve and there were only
15 minutes until the doors closed. He
said that if he didn't make it on time,
no Inter fan would forgive him for that.
He made it at the last minute
and submitted the contract.
I was preparing for a game with Lazio,
and my last day was a Saturday,
which was also the last day of
the transition period with Zaccheroni.
He is a phenomenal coach and a person
with whom I'm still keeping in touch.
I owe him a great deal of gratitude.
I was getting ready to go to
Siena on that Saturday.
He asked if I could play right away
and said of course. The very next day,
I was playing for Inter.
I had my baptism by fire.
Taking a first step at San Siro
is such a special feeling.
I think it's a tough stadium, trust me.
-Is it tough when Milan or Inter plays?
No... San Siro, whether from Milan or
Inter, ate up players much better than
I ever was. That pressure, ambient,
demanding fans... That kind of pressure
ate up Seedrof and Pirlo in Inter.
They didn't succeed then,
but they did in Milan. Their moments
in San Siro weren't the best.
That first match knocked down all
barriers between San Siro and me.
I knew what it meant.
It's the same thing with Milan Scala.
To play in Milan in that stadium is
a spectacle. I was really enjoying it.
I got rid of the barriers. We won
and slowly reached our first goal,
to enter the first four teams.
I came in when we were in the 7th place.
We got to the first four teams
and had the qualifications...
For the Champions League? -We got
to the qualifications and into the last,
or second to last round. Adriano
also joined Inter after being
a loan player for Parma, so the two of
us started playing in the winter.
We managed to climb from the 7th to the
4th place. Mancini also came, and we
entered the Champions League by beating
Basel. And that's how it starts.
That's how the era of Mancini started,
and afterward of José.
Can I just circle back for a moment?
-Yes, of course. -Álvaro Recoba
and that one penalty kick. Can we
talk a bit about that? Is that true?
Yes, it's true.
I don't like penalties.
Not because I'm afraid
of taking the shot,
but because if I miss,
the disappointment will be much greater
than the joy of scoring the goal.
But I didn’t hide.
I took shots even when there were
penalties after 90 or 120 minutes.
Whenever it was necessary.
He came when it was 3-0
and gave me the ball.
I told him, if you're the one
who's going to take the penalty
when it's 0-0 and the 90th minute,
you'll be the one to take it
when it's 3-0 and the 85th minute.
That’s how I see things.
It's easy to take a penalty at 3-0.
No. In my opinion,
the one who should always take it
is the one who will take the shot
in the 90th minute at 0-0, and a goal
we need to win the trophy. -I agree.
That same person shoots
at 5-0 and at 0-0.
I said, Chino, your left foot
is magical. He scored, 4-0.
After that, I started scoring
goals in my own way.
Let's go back to your way.
That shot of yours
is really rare to see.
You had a top-notch shot. It seems to me
that you developed it over time.
It became more dangerous and
you were scoring from greater distances.
In important matches. I would
mention the derby against Milan,
which was probably the most important
during your time at Inter.
You scored 3-4 of the most important
goals in 12 matches. -Yes.
How did that come about?
All your attempts, not just the goals,
over time, along with your status,
did that contribute to
the quality of your shot?
Definitely. From this point of view,
preparation is 80% of the shot.
I had excellent preparation.
Ball reception, the distance at reception,
body positioning that shields the ball.
There's an anecdote.
As a kid, I grew a lot,
and I already had a size 43-44 foot
as a young cadet.
We trained indoors with
Zvezda during winter.
Šeki was there, playing football
with his friends.
He saw my problem, that I couldn’t
kick properly because of my large feet.
He showed me how to kick
with the outside of my foot,
so I wouldn’t scrape the ground.
To switch to the outside.
I liked that,
and I started doing it.
Preparation for that is 80% of the job.
My preparation was phenomenal.
I always liked to "wrap it" a bit
with the outside, to curve it away.
I scored a lot of goals
because of the shot preparation.
Body positioning is important,
the standing leg, the hip rotation.
When you shoot, how you follow
the ball with your body.
Try to imagine the situation
and finish this.
Cambiaso on the left side.
I'm talking about Schalke.
A long ball goes toward Eto'o...
-Milito. -Milito.
The goalkeeper comes out,
almost 30-40 meters.
Almost from the center.
That wasn’t the first time for me.
In the younger categories,
I scored similar goals.
The goalkeeper kicks the ball and
I return it immediately from the circle.
Back then, we were smaller.
He would come to the 16-meter line.
He kicks it so the ball
lands at midfield.
As the ball comes to me,
I return it immediately.
That was a volley, it went like this.
-Some say it's a beautiful goal.
I say it's a crazy goal.
They ask when I decided.
When I saw it coming toward me,
I knew what I would do.
I love that shot, the coordination
of the volley, the body positioning...
Everything was in place there.
I hit few crossbars and I scored
some goals from the halfway line.
After that, I scored another goal
from midfield against Genoa.
Maybe even harder than this one.
This one was beautiful, exactly
the way I like to curve the ball.
For it to go in but not touch
the ground before the line.
Yes, it didn’t touch the ground.
-A crazy goal,
but it requires coordination.
That’s what we were talking about.
Body positioning and coordination
are 80% of the shot.
Someone might have a stronger shot,
but coordination is key for precision.
To score a goal,
you have to hit the target.
The year is 2010.
The golden age of Inter.
2009/2010, Mourinho, triple crown.
The icing on the career for most of you.
The last train, not icing.
I agree with you.
For most players. -For 90%.
If we start listing the starting eleven.
Materazzi and I came into the game.
We were 32 and 35 years old.
Zanetti was 36, Cambiasso 31,
Maicon 28-29, Wesley 30,
Milito 31. Eto'o 32,
Walter Samuel... -Yes, him.
Over 90% of the players
were older than 30 years.
We knew it was the end.
During the group stage,
we barely made it through in Kiev,
but when you watch the match,
it doesn’t seem so.
We scored the goals in
the 89th and 94th minutes.
That was already 50%
of the Champions League won.
If we hadn’t won against
Rebrov and Shevchenko in offense,
we wouldn’t have made it
through the group stage.
You lost away to Barcelona,
and at home it was a draw.
We needed to win that to secure
the last match against Rubin Kazan.
In Kiev, we were losing at halftime.
Jose did things his way.
He set us up
for the second half.
From the start to the end,
we progressed, progressed.
It paid off. It was incredible.
89th and 93rd minute, you advance.
After that, 3-0 Rubin Kazan.
That was a mature team,
they had no problems in the locker room.
We didn’t need a director or Moratti
to come in. God forbid Moratti came.
For us to allow the famous
Massimo Moratti to say something to us.
Never? -No. He’s a gentleman who was
in the wrong era of football management.
He is so kind,
such a great gentleman.
I didn’t see him in that world,
but he loves Inter.
He says he's in love with Inter
like someone with the wrong woman.
You love her, but she tortures you
in every possible way.
But you have to know, when 80 thousand
people are insulting you, look up.
There’s one man who adores you.
That’s where it all begins and ends
when Massimo Moratti is mentioned.
He embodies nobility. Not one
of his words was out of context.
When you have such a president,
we need to act like nervous fools.
There was so much ego in
the locker room you could export it.
There were tons of egos.
All that ego was directed
toward the success of Inter.
We all felt that this man and
this crowd deserved such a year.
It doesn’t matter anymore
if someone plays, doesn’t play,
if you’re angry or not.
In that moment, the first minute
is like the 90th,
and the 90th is like the first.
All together, zero problems.
If there were any, we dealt
with them behind closed doors.
We came out even
better and stronger.
We were adults. There were 25
players, and we had 60 kids.
Together we had 50-60 kids.
One had three, another four...
Like a family. -Everyone has kids,
and we need to act up
or prove ourselves. To whom?
Just to ourselves,
to prove that we can do it.
The atmosphere after that was...
The next 20% was Chelsea.
It was the round of 16.
Chelsea with Ancelotti and that team.
Drogba, F. Lampard, A. Cole,
Terry, Peter Cech.
A serious team.
We beat them 2:1, 0:1 in
a monstrous match in London.
Did you lose? -We won 0:1.
Chelsea-Inter 0:1.
The goal was scored by Eto'o
in the 81st or 82nd minute.
That was the mastermind by José Mourinho
and all of us who played.
In the draw, we were lucky.
CSKA, with due respect.
After Barcelona. -After that,
we struggled. 1:0 at home.
I know we won there,
artificial turf, it was cold,
Sneijder, goalkeeper's mistake.
After that, the semifinals, Barcelona.
Dream team, Pep Guardiola...
-Messi... -Messi is the best, Ibra.
Who else was there?
Xavi, Iniesta...
They were all top-notch
from that generation.
Dani Alves, I don’t know
who was on the left.
Puyol, Pique. The best
Barcelona team that ever played.
You know...
You played in
the group stage that year...
In the group stage
we didn’t have much saying.
Then comes the semifinals.
-Semifinals. You know how it is?
You can’t have it twice.
You don’t accept that.
The pressure was on them and on us.
I think it was more on them.
You could feel it. In the first match,
the atmosphere was crazy. Unreal.
We were the first team to manage
to turn around Barcelona at San Siro.
It would usually be 0:2, 0:3, or 0:4.
We managed to turn that around
and get to 3:1. -3:1.
-We turned the match around
and took every chance
we had to punish them.
A volcano erupted in Finland,
stopping air traffic.
They traveled by bus.
They traveled for 2-3 days.
They slept everywhere
until they reached Milan.
All of that can and may not
affect the final result.
Then comes the drama in Barcelona.
I don’t believe I’ll experience
longer 100 minutes.
That’s when you closed up.
The formation was extremely defensive.
We had offensive players,
but we played defensively.
Milito, Eto'o, Pandev, Sneijder played.
We were all like one.
We had offensive players, but the strength
of Barcelona at that moment...
One full-back was Eto'o,
and Pandev was the other.
That’s what I’m talking about
the locker room with tons of egos,
but Samuel played left-back
with his weaker foot,
while Goran Pandev played
right-back with his weaker foot.
From corner flag to corner flag. -Muntari
came in because Pandev got injured.
Muntari was the sixth,
because we had six in the line.
It was a serious barricade.
But I agree with José.
I need to be brave and die
or I’ll struggle and pass through.
I think you should work hard.
You can't fight a stronger one,
but you can hit and run.
You find a way to punish
your opponent.
We defended ourselves.
Julio Cesar had two saves,
in my opinion,
are the saves of his career.
In the first half, he saves
Messi's ball with his fingernails.
To Messi who scored
countless such goals.
We're advancing to the finals...
There is an anecdote, so if
you are interested, I will tell you.
But not in front of the cameras?
-I can, I can.
Tell me, please, if you can.
The finals comes up. We have
already won the Italian Cup.
We are getting closer
to the Scudetto title
and we are already in the finals
of the Champions League.
We will play the final
match with Bayern.
Materazzi, Kivu, Wesley Sneijder
and I are at dinner with our wives,
and Joze went with his staff
to watch the cup final
at the Olympic Stadium in Berlin.
Bayern played,
but I don't know against whom.
Marco corresponds with Jose.
He asks how he is and the like...
And Materazzi adds:
"Ask him how my stadium is?
Because Marko lifted the world champion
trophy with the Italian national team
at that Olympic stadium in Berlin.
The atmosphere was phenomenal then.
Materazzi then asked him
what our opponents were like.
And Jose answers:
"We will win 2:0.
We played the final game on May 22.
If you check in the archives
when the German cup final was,
that's the date, and Jose is
more than two weeks earlier
said that we will win 2:0.
The eight of us can testify
to that.  Us and our wives.
That's how it happened.
-That's how it happened, yes.
In nice warm Madrid.
To play in Madrid
and achieve such success
in a stadium that has its own history,
in front of a huge number of fans
who create an incredible
atmosphere, means a lot.
When we suffered,
we knew why we were suffering.
When we punished,
we punished good.
We all gave more
than we should have.
Both against Bayern
and against Barca,
more than 100% effort
should have been given.
We all had to concentrate,
ignore our egos and be normal,
be modest and "smaller
than a poppy seed".
Jose managed to get
the most out of all of us.
I thought I had given everything
to football, but he managed,
to pull out another 20 or 30%
of my strength and I repeat this often.
He instilled in me a desire to never
give up to show what I'm here for.
We all gave that 20% more.
When a group of guys give
20% more strenght each,
the result is a triple crown and
you remain inscribed somewhere.
in golden letters and close the circle.
Just like I told you before.
That's why you come to Inter and work
and defend those colors for 10 years.
The reason is respect.
Until 2010. everything was perfect.
It's an impressive career
from Zvezda until 2010 or 2011.
There were no big problems,
and then Rafael Benitez came,
about whom I even heard stories,
including Pandev,
that he was not a fan of players
from our region.
You had a pretty bad relationship
because of that. Is that true?
Are these some journalistic topics,
a half-truth or was it really like that.
Now that I'm doing this job,
I can understand some things better.
I am much older
and more experienced...
When Jose left,
he left a huge void,
and Benitez came with his own ideas,
which I somewhat understand.
A similar thing happened to me when
I came to Ferencvaros as a new coach.
When I arrived, I had my ideas,
my own way, which can automatically
lead to opposition,
resistance and rejection.
But it's a process
you have to go through.
You can't come with a deflated ball,
inflate it and say:
"Now I will show you
how to play football."
We didn't play badly under Benitez,
although there were disagreements.
It all ended with winning
the club world championship.
After that, president Moratti
visited us and decided
to change that after only
6 months of cooperation.
I would not go into details,
nor attach any special importance to it.
I am glad that we closed
that cycle by winning
the Club World Cup,
despite the fact that we
had a pretty bad relationship.
But from this point of view
it is no big deal.
When you are a player you
can only see some things.
You only see what's on stage.
And when you are a coach,
you can see what is on stage
and what is behind the stage
and what is behind the curtain.
You can see a lot, and as a player
you only see that in front of you.
I must admit that our relationship
with him wasn't good either.
Certainly not. When he encountered
some resistance, and he was a coach
who has his own credits, his own
greatness, and he won many cups,
he probably showed us
who's in charge.
From this perspective,
I see it that way.
I can only say that we did not
understand each other.
After that everything was different.
We started to disperse and leave.
Everyone sought their
luck in some other clubs.
I stayed there until the end.
I also had a tendon injury, which
unfortunately I operated twice.
When I returned,
I thought this is it, now I will play,
but then a coach came
who hadn't even notice me.
It was great for me. I decided
to use the extra days of rest,
and came to Moratti.  We sat down,
drank coffee, lit a cigar.
I always had coffee with him
and smoked,
now I can say that,
because I don't play.
He also gave me a gold coin.
We chatted often, as I extended
the contract three times
sitting with him
over coffee and a cigar.
You have also terminated
the contract. -That's right.
I thanked him, because
he was a real gentleman.
I could go to Fiorentina
at that moment,
because they were giving me
a contract for two years.
I asked for some time to think,
because I always said
that I would end my career
with Inter or Milan.
I could go on, but I like to
joke and say that I tasted
the sea in July and it was
just as salty as it was in June.
I liked that, so I decided
to say goodbye.
The fact that the sea is always equally
salty helped you make a decision.
Yes, we always went to the sea
in June when it was a little cooler.
Since it was equally salty,
I liked that.
Honestly, I wasn't
ready to leave football.
Although after 20 years
of intense work and adrenaline,
the first year was quite difficult,
quite strong, emotionally and mentally.
You just don't know
where the fence is.
You would hold on,
but you don't know where it is.
You feel a little dizzy and if you
haven't prepared the airbag,
you will lose the ground
under your feet.
It wasn't easy the first year,
but slowly after that
you catch the rhythm and move on.
Now we are moving from
the club career to national team.
You had great teammates
in the national team,
but not the results that, in my opinion,
would match that level.
What do you think prevented
you from achieving more?
You must have had many
guests in this series
who played for
the Serbian national team.
I don't believe that either
of us will say anything bad
or that either of
us will say anything else.
I just feel sorry about '98.
That year I joined
that national team and played
until 2010, but because of that
my heart hurts even today.
You were very close then.
-Of course we are.
That generation in 2010 with
Radomir Antic on the bench.
The qualifications went well.
It was a phenomenal group of 15 guys.
Mister did not change much,
he stuck to the standard team.
He preparee us to the max.
In that match against Australia,
when we missed a goal,
I still don't understand to this day
how we managed not to win.
It's the most beautiful half time
I've played for the national team.
Primarily I enjoyed it.
When we finally reached
the world Championship,
and beat Germany,
we lost unfortunately to Ghana.
Yes, we beat Germany and
defeat Australia in the first half.
If it was 0:3 nobody
would have stolen anything.
And then we conceded goals
with a header from 13 meters,
then from a shot from 35 meters.
We could only run, cry and wonder:
"What happened?"
Then we score and
due to our excessive desire,
we missed the impossible.
We scored one offside goal,
and one penalty in the last second
was not awarded
to us by the referee.
And it was identical to the one
he previously awarded to Ghana.
That's where that generation stopped.
That was all from that generation.
We could have gone further.
Draw went very well for us.
We could have played and fought,
because we did not have a difficult task
and I am sorry that we did not
take advantage of that.
If I bring back one game in my career,
that would be... - Australia?
I'd take all the defeats
just to get that game back
against Australia, because what we
missed in the first half is unreal.
Bad luck continued to follow us
during major competitions
but I was proud and honored
to play for the national team.
We need to become regular participants
in major competitions,
and then we will gradually get
a generation that will help us
regain what we lost
in the match against Australia.
But we must be constant participants.
Believe me that it is a special feeling
to be part of the national team
and to wear that jersey.
I particularly appreciate
that group of guys.
Peđa Mijatović, Siniša Mihajlović,
Jugović, Savičević, Stojković,
Savo, Darko Kovačević, Đorović,
Bata Mirković and Okanović.
That generation of guys,
who accepted me
and kept me like this, is priceless.
It meant a lot to me
that those great people
appeared in my life then.
Even today, thank God, I have
excellent relations with everyone.
I lost Miha, but I jealously keep
him in my heart,
and with the others,
even after all this time,
I am in a phenomenal relationship.
So the national team is
a nice chapter in my life.
Now, that you’ve touched
on that topic,
we must mention the deceased
Siniša Mihajlović.
I have read many texts about
you and him.
You said a specific word,
that he was, for you,
the reference point of all
important things in your life.
Yes, important decisions,
important support.
The most important thing
is when he says OK.
And then everything will be OK.
I spoke to your colleagues
a month ago about this.
It's hard to talk about.
As time goes by you realize more
and more who he was.
And what a great person he was.
Most people were not his equal.
His ideas, attitudes, his way
of thinking, his honesty and goodness.
So Miha carries weight in my life.
And a huge emptiness.
When I dream of him, I want
to know what he wants to tell me.
I miss one minute with him.
He was big, so big.
2019 was the entry into Inter's
Hall of Fame. It is a special award.
How do you look at it now,
after few years?
Inter is special, you were in.
-Enter... Yes.
It was the second Hall of Fame awards
ceremony. There were Facchetti, Mazzola,
names that seriously wrote history,
and in that second round,
in 2019 I was the midfielder.
When time passes, only then
do you see how important it is.
As long as the career lasts,
you don't have time to look back.
Children grow up fast.
Soon after "Hi, Dad" it becomes
"Where are you, old man"?
From the voice of a small baby
to that of an adult.
A man's career passes.
When you finish your career and look
back, you realize that it's not so bad.
It wasn’t easy to achieve that.
Not even counting all the trophies.
I joked with my colleagues
that my Ana was mad at me
because we had to buy another
cabinet for all those trophies.
A lot was won, but it wasn’t easy.
It required a lot of effort.
In 2019, I entered the Hall of Fame.
Thanks to voices of the fans.
It wasn't you, me and Zdravko...
We didn’t agree that Deki
should be in the Hall of Fame. No!
It was exclusively the fans?
-Yes, only fans. -That's it.
That's a win.
Being one of them. -Yes.
Dejan, let's talk about your career
as coach of Crvena Zvezda.
As far as I know, there were three
championships and 2 cups won?
You have always played
European matches,
but not the Champions League
in the group stage.
You won a lot of points that later
helped Serbia, didn't you?
But there was still regret
about it. -That's true.
Is it realistic or not?
I don't know.
That's exactly what
I wanted to ask you.
We are used to sometimes
doing unrealistic things.
Was it realistic for Crvena Zvezda to
win the title of European champion?
And yes and no! When we talk about
Siniša, Juga, Binić, Pančev,
Savičević, Belodedić, Najdovski,
Stojanović and all those legends...
We would say that it is realistic,
but there were a lot of other teams.
We made it and we were used
to doing miracles in Zvezda,
something maybe unrealistic.
We were pretty close.
Three titles, although half or
the whole title is thanks to Vlado,
because he left me
an advantage of 11 points,
as well as time and space to find
my way in Crvena Zvezda.
I don't need anyone to explain what
kind of club it is and how big it is.
Vladimir Cvetković gave a nice
description of Crvena Zvezda.
He says that Crvena Zvezda is
as much as you imagined it to be
before you came to it.
That's how big Crvena Zvezda is.
So there is no need for anyone to
explain anything about it to me.
I have learned what Crvena
Zvezda is since my childhood.
I worked independently as a coach
with Stramaccioni in Serie A for a year.
It was a nice and
educational experience.
After that I knew what I wanted
and what I didn't want.
I had an 11 point lead while
I was figuring things out.
After that, two double crowns come.
The round of 16 in the Europa
League is approaching.
Then the round of 16
in the Europa League.
For me, that's a phenomenal result.
These points directly open
the door to the Champions League.
I failed to enter three times. The first
time I was eliminated on penalties.
Other times, the details
decided the game.
Maybe you miss a chance,
miss or score a goal...
These are all the details
in football that happen.
They may score in 90th minute,
your own goal instead of extra time.
You simply become speechless and
experience an emotional breakdown.
First of all, I am a fan of the
Crvena Zvezda, and then a coach.
Child of the Crvena Zvezda,
then captain and all that.
And at that moment I have
an emotional breakdown.
That's when my work at the Crvena
Zvezde comes to an end.
Someone will say I ran away.
But what did I run away from?
Why should I run away from
my city and my Crvena Zvezda?
It destroyed me. I was in bed
for two days with a fever.
I couldn't get out of bed.
You are a man with great
sports and life experience.
And this is a show that educates
young people about such champions.
How to pass all that, overcome
the problems and reach the throne?
Is there a universal formula?
Can you give us some advice
in a few sentences?
I will be direct and take my children
as an example.
I have three sons: Stefan,
he will turn 23, in September.
Filip, 22, in February
and Aleksandar is 18.
Stefan was the first to leave
the Inter Academy for Inter.
It's like a transfer,
you have to pay the Inter Academy.
And then he started playing
for Inter at 16-17.
In those years, he represented
Serbia and played for Inter.
He received an invitation to
the European Championship,
which was then being
played in Croatia.
And he decided to quit football.
I told him to think.
His last name may be a burden.
Children during that period
don’t know what they want.
But we have to deal with it.
They say to him: "You play
because your father is Dejan?"
And he gives up.
He's just not happy anymore.
It was difficult for me at first.
I figured he could do that.
Would he to it for score of 1 or 10,
it depends on him.
But he will do that
and make a living from it.
How much he will give up
and how much he will train,
that depends on him.
For the first two months it was
difficult to accept his decision,
but I realized that he is very brave.
He decided to quit,
because he was’nt happy.
So, he was not happy, and to me his
happiness is the most important thing.
Why should I push him by force
and give him obligations?
He finished school and is on his way.
He knows what football is.
After that comes Philip. Likewise, from
the Inter Academy, he moves to Inter.
The goalkeeper, stubborn,
looked up to Stefan.
"You won't come an inch to me."
He took a guard and doesn't care.
And Aleksandar moved from
the Inter Academy to Inter.
And he has his own stance.
But someone had to be a victim
for the two of them to understand
what it was all about.
They have a wonderful relationship.
He really knows what football is.
And he will definitely pursue football.
I'm waiting for him.
Filip continued his career at Inter.
Both Filip and Aleksandar
have a contract with Inter.
Filip is on loan at Sampdoria.
Aleksandar is the captain
of the young generation of the Inter.
He trains with the first team
and has a professional contract.
The child must be respected.
-That's the point.
If the child isn’t happy,
everything is in vain.
That's true.
I felt it on my skin, it hurt.
Maybe it hurt me more than him,
but I can see that he can do it.
How did we start the interview?
About renunciation.
It is the starting point
and the ending point.
How much are you willing
to give up?
Something was bothering you that
stopped your progress, your growth.
The pieces have to came together
for you to become someone.
A lot of giving up,
that's the first and last point.
Thank you very much.
-The pleasure is mine.
I hope you won't be late for practice?
-I won't.